In this lesson, we'll customize the navigation using both the customizer and the menu areas in WordPress.
You'll also learn more design tools in cadence like image focus points and improving the design with
overlapping elements using negative margin.
By the end of this video, you'll understand more cadence block editing tools for precise design across
all screen sizes.
Let's make one more edit to this header the menu in particular, and then we'll go do some customization
of the home page itself and some other pages that were brought in as a part of our starter template
and continue to learn how to use the cadence, theme and cadence blocks.
So let's go back to the site.
Customize their appearance.
Customize.
And now, as we're looking in here, we can look under menus and we've got the main real estate menu
here now right now.
This menu, you can tell, is not the menu being used here.
This is actually just the default menu.
What happens in WordPress by default?
If you don't have a menu, define a particular menu that you've created with particular pages in the
Settings Menus area or in the customizer under menus.
Then it's just going to pull every page into the menu itself.
So what we want is for this main real estate menu to be in the primary menu location, so all I have
to do is click primary right there.
And now we've got the menu up here that's looking a lot better.
It gives us a home link.
The one thing that's missing, there's a couple of items missing the brokerage menu item, as well as
the 4:18 Norman Street.
We've been working on and so I've added those items to the menu itself.
OK.
And so I can just click publish.
And now one thing I want to do is maybe just move them around a little bit.
So just like in the appearance menus area, you can drag these in the customizer.
So I'll just drag maybe brokerage.
I'll drag next to home right over here.
And then let's put it the drop down.
If maybe under the brokerage, we'll put the properties for sale.
And so you look at the dotted line here, if you just pull it to the inside inset just a little bit
that defines that item as a dropdown item could see in the theme that we have a little down arrow and
that comes through as a dropdown item and clickable through to the page itself.
So you could see what that looks like, and yes, that's looking a lot better.
So a click publish and just very quickly.
Just, you know, a non full site editing theme, if you go under appearance menus, the area works
just about the same.
You know, you've got these menu locations if you have a menu selected right here.
Now we do only have one menu available.
So if we created a new menu, maybe a different one to put on the footer, we would just go up here
and say, create a new menu using this button.
And then here, like I said, you can drag these around, have it be indented as a dropdown item, etc.
When you want to pull items in, you could click View all to see all the pages, but you can also put
posts, you can put custom links and you can put category links into a WordPress menu.
And so that's a convenient way.
I usually use this appearance menus area to really edit and create my menus versus the customizer.
I don't think there's a lot of room in there, as you might have noticed.
And so let's go through and look at the homepage now I go to pages all pages.
I didn't actually need to save my changes there in the menu.
Let me close this tab right here, and let's go refresh the page here in our web site and we'll see
what that menu looks like.
There we go.
Looking good.
OK, so we're on the home page.
Let's go to Page's home, and let's take a look at what we have here.
I just wanted to show you one other feature on this website is on the home page.
We have this sort of inset image right here in front of the background image that makes up the main
hero image of the home page.
Now, how was that accomplished?
Quite interesting the way this was created.
So let's look at the list view.
And of course, I have the settings closed from before, so I'll open up with the gear icon.
Take a look at the settings when we're inspecting the blocks over here.
And so let's see.
Let's look at the different sections that we have.
What do we have here?
So there's a row layout that's this very top a section which is within that row layout that contains
the heading and text and the button over here on the left hand side.
Right.
And then another section, which is the right hand side.
And so I can assume that this row layout is a two column layout, right?
Here's a two column layout.
Now that's how this text was forced over to the left side to reveal the background image here and really
make it a nice looking homepage.
So, you know, that's that's one thing.
There's the image.
One of the things you should know about cadence is that no matter how the image, you know, sometimes
the image will be cropped at different things.
But you can define a focal point if the image is on a really small screen that might be cropped differently,
but you can define by dragging this point.
You can define what part of the image do you want to always be the focal point of that image?
And so that's a really interesting way to really customize your your images and how they're displayed
on the website, even when your website is fully mobile responsive.
And so in addition to that, I can see that there's another row layout b r b below this whole section.
And so this is a row layout and within that roll out again, it's a two column rollout.
Here's where the width of it 50 50 is defined, and you can change that by dragging this back and forth
or by choosing a layout here.
And also, you can choose the gutter width.
So that's like how much space is around it between the content.
But here we have an advance heading in some paragraph text.
Then the second section over here contains this photo, and this is what I wanted to show you.
So there's an advanced gallery here, and this is a gallery with one image.
And in that way, you can say, OK, there was one column in the gallery.
There's just this one image and you can control the gutter width, which is how you know how much breathing
space this image has.
But how did they make it come and come up above and overlap?
The image here, which really leads to the nice look and feel of this website?
Well, that's determined.
I believe in the section settings.
In the section settings, we have some container styles.
First of all, nothing really important in there, but let's look at a line settings.
There's a it's aligned vertically for the block direction.
And as we look at padding and margin, here's where I suspected this was going on.
There is a negative margin number under the top margin, and so you can imagine if if an item has negative
margin, you could see here's the section in the blue.
But this item, there's padding and margin is defined with negative 100.
So if I change that to, you know, negative 80, that moves it down 80, you know, 20 pixels down
to where it's OK, it's pulled negative 80.
If I had zero as the margin, it would just be, you know, right at the top of the container, right
touching the top of the container right there.
And so that is a really interesting way to do some really cool, you know, image styling.
So let's go back and select the section.
We'll go back to the padding and margin and the top margin.
I had negative 100 and bring it back there.
And so I just wanted to show you that there's a very cool effect that takes place on this website.